I'm not entirely done with sets and maps yet because there are specialized versions of them.
Let me comment this out and let me introduce you to weak set and weak map.
Now what is that?
Let's say we have a person here,
it's not a constant but a variable, name
Max and I want to store it is an asset.
Now previously we had a set of strings but of course, you can store any data in there,
you can store objects in there as well.
Now in the case of the weak set which I'll show you,
it has to be object data to be precise.
So here persons now is my new weak set which now requires objects to be stored in it,
that means you can also store arrays in there since they are objects in the end but you can't store numbers
or strings in there.
So here I'll actually initialize this to be an empty set and now I can add a new entry with the add
method and add person.
Now right away, when you type persons., you see there are way less methods available, only add,
delete and has. There is no method to get all the entries for example
and the reason for that is that weak set, just like weak map which I will also show you internally works
such that it can only store objects so that it can actually clear these objects for you, release them
to garbage collection which I covered in the behind the scenes module,
if you don't work with a certain piece of data anymore. Conveniently if we console log persons here,
the browser dev tools console still allows me to look inside of that, if we reload here, we can actually
have a look into our set and see the value here.
Now you might wonder, why would I need this strange thing?
Well if you have an application where you store data,
let's say in a set, object data in a set or other arrays, where you eventually will let go of data, then
you want to make sure that this data can be garbage collected.
Now if we work with that person here let's say and then we do some operations with it and we
needed it in the set for these operations and we still need the set thereafter, maybe for other operations
but this person is not really required anymore,
then we can set person equal to null.
This means we set this variable to null,
so this object no longer has anyone who is interested in it.
This person variable, which stored its address is now reset to null,
so the address is released from there and the Javascript engine then is able to pick this up and eventually
clear this object from the heap,
that's what garbage collection does, it clears that data from memory.
Now if you would use a normal set here which you can normally, then the person you created here would
still be part of that set.
So even if you cleared your variable here, you added that object, that pointer at this object to this
set and Javascript thankfully detects that and will not clear the object because the set still holds
a reference to it and that's good because Javascript would expect that you plan on working with that
and deleting it therefore would be bad.
Now let's say you eventually never end up working with that person again, then with a normal set, you have
that unnecessary data stored in memory because you have that data in a set even though you don't
need it anymore.
Sure, you could have done persons delete and deleted that value
but if you forgot that, well there you go. Now with weak set,
if you reset all other places where you point that this object, the weak set will not hold onto it.
So the weak set allows garbage collection to delete items that are part of the set
as long as no other part of your code uses these items,
so now with that eventually, that will be garbage collected. Here if I reload, we can still see that person,
so it certainly didn't get garbage collected between this line and this line but garbage collection
can't be planned,
you don't know when the browser does it.
The thing is with this here and weak set being used, it's able to garbage collect this. So weak set is an
interesting option in cases where you store object data in a set and you eventually release some of
that data and you want to make sure that this thing can be garbage collected.
Obviously super advanced, not something you'll use in many applications, not something we need here in
the majority of this course
to be honest but something to be aware of, especially as you grow as a developer and you will encounter
more and more advanced programs,
advanced code snippets where something like that might get used.